RFC - Type extension and duplication (#428)
blockprotocol/blockprotocol: rfcs/text/0428-extending-types.md

- Do multiple super-types impose constraints on extending types?
- How does having `additionalProperties` in existing schemas influence extended types?
- How do we define extended types within the BP Type System?

## Subtyping

Compatibility between extended types is the ability to use the subtype in place of a supertype. [Prior art](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subtyping#Coercions) calls this `coercive subtyping` when it can happen implicitly.
_Composition_ rather than inheritance allows us to have more guarantees about the relationship between subtypes and supertypes. If a subtype never modifies a supertype's inherited properties, we are sure that the supertype properties are left untouched, which eliminates the need for evaluating compatibility (i.e. no need for [`subsumption`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subtyping#Subsumption), the concept of finding out whether or not a supertype is a supertype of a subtype or not).

For example, an `Employee` instance looks as follows (simplified):

```json
{
  "name": "Charles",
  "age": 35,
  "occupation": "Merchant"
}
```

And the properties would have the following relation to `Employee`:

> ```

Reviewer: You can use ` ```txt` here to pass markdownlint

- Feature Name: extending-types
- Start Date: 2022-07-11
- RFC PR: [blockprotocol/blockprotocol#428](https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/pull/428)
- Block Protocol Discussion: [blockprotocol/blockprotocol#439](https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/discussions/439)

# Summary

[summary]: #summary

> As a follow-up to the [Graph type system RFC](./0352-graph-type-system.md), this RFC will describe the behavior of which types in the type system can be extended and duplicated to enhance reusability while giving more control to users (both block authors and users of embedding applications). Extending types can be considered the same as "type inheritance", but there are some important nuances that make these concepts different.

Reviewer 2: Duplication is not covered in this RFC
```suggestion
As a follow-up to the [Graph type system RFC](./0352-graph-type-system.md), this RFC will describe the behavior of which types in the type system can be extended to enhance reusability while giving more control to users (both block authors and users of embedding applications). Extending types can be considered the same as "type inheritance", but there are some important nuances that make these concepts different.
```

> This RFC is not set out to solve duplicating types or "forking", and this will be considered an unresolved problem in this RFC.

Author: Initially I was under the impression that addressing forking would make the RFC large and split in two. But it's true that duplication isn't much more than the listed steps. I will see if I can reasonably cover this in this RFC after having a think about it

> This RFC is not set out to solve duplicating types or "forking", and this will be considered an unresolved problem in this RFC.

Reviewer 3: If we do encounter other subtleties then we can definitely punt it to another RFC but I don't immediately see any yet.

> This RFC is not set out to solve duplicating types or "forking", and this will be considered an unresolved problem in this RFC.

Author: Added in 8a6d65949d28c1929624cf2b66009eb49c54615c, might be incomplete, but the general idea has been added. Also added a way for duplicated types to preserve supertypes

# Motivation

[motivation]: #motivation

Reusing public types in the type system comes with the potential disadvantage of not fully conforming to a user's intention. If a user is interested in a public type but needs certain properties to make the type usable for their use case, they would have to recreate the type themself in the current system.

Allowing for types to be extended in the Block Protocol means that a user could still make use of public types when they want to define types for their domain.

This RFC introduces a way for types to be extended in a way where the reusability and sharing aspects of the Block Protocol are maintained.

# Guide-level explanation

[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

Type extension can be seen as the concept of adding properties to an existing entity type `Type` by creating a new type `SubType` that has a specific relation to `Type`.

> Using `SubType` in place of `Type` must be possible when extending a type, which means that existing properties and links may _not_ be modified.

Author: I've semi-addressed it in f8d2a9bc5699626418c1aa9e828f1174c85780fd as I intend to add forking to the RFC now, and that might slightly change the wording of these added bits

For example, an `Employee` entity type can be an extended version of `Person`. This `Employee` type could contain domain-specific properties, making it more concrete while keeping compatibility with `Person`.

> If the `Person` entity type contains required properties `Name` and `Age`, the `Employee` entity type would inherit these properties and perhaps add a `Occupation` property. `Employee` would _not_ be able to overwrite any of the properties given by `Person` e.g. it's not possible to turn `Name` into an array or make it optional. This restriction is important as disabling overwriting enables `Employee` instances to be valid `Person` instances i.e. compatibility with `Person` is kept.

Reviewer 2: Nit: may be worth rewording slightly to make it more readable. Also used `override` instead of `overwrite` as I think in the context of inheritance it's more appropriate?
```suggestion
If the `Person` entity type contains required properties `Name` and `Age`, the `Employee` entity type would inherit these properties and could add other properties (e.g. an `Occupation` property). `Employee` would _not_ be able to override any of the properties inherited from `Person` (e.g. it's not possible to turn `Name` into an array or make it optional) to ensure that instances of `Employee` are also valid instances of `Person` (i.e. compatibility with `Person` is preserved).
```

> If the `Person` entity type contains required properties `Name` and `Age`, the `Employee` entity type would inherit these properties and perhaps add a `Occupation` property. `Employee` would _not_ be able to overwrite any of the properties given by `Person` e.g. it's not possible to turn `Name` into an array or make it optional. This restriction is important as disabling overwriting enables `Employee` instances to be valid `Person` instances i.e. compatibility with `Person` is kept.

Reviewer 2: It might be worth mentioning the [Liskov substitution principle here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle), as it similarly imposes that children can be used in place of their parents.

> If the `Person` entity type contains required properties `Name` and `Age`, the `Employee` entity type would inherit these properties and perhaps add a `Occupation` property. `Employee` would _not_ be able to overwrite any of the properties given by `Person` e.g. it's not possible to turn `Name` into an array or make it optional. This restriction is important as disabling overwriting enables `Employee` instances to be valid `Person` instances i.e. compatibility with `Person` is kept.

Author: I can mention the substitution principle to the reference-level explanation :+1:

> If the `Person` entity type contains required properties `Name` and `Age`, the `Employee` entity type would inherit these properties and perhaps add a `Occupation` property. `Employee` would _not_ be able to overwrite any of the properties given by `Person` e.g. it's not possible to turn `Name` into an array or make it optional. This restriction is important as disabling overwriting enables `Employee` instances to be valid `Person` instances i.e. compatibility with `Person` is kept.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good 👍

> If the `Person` entity type contains required properties `Name` and `Age`, the `Employee` entity type would inherit these properties and perhaps add a `Occupation` property. `Employee` would _not_ be able to overwrite any of the properties given by `Person` e.g. it's not possible to turn `Name` into an array or make it optional. This restriction is important as disabling overwriting enables `Employee` instances to be valid `Person` instances i.e. compatibility with `Person` is kept.

Author: Addressed in 1074bc10995c46152221e3d23e345fdb983f03e6

> If the `Person` entity type contains required properties `Name` and `Age`, the `Employee` entity type would inherit these properties and perhaps add a `Occupation` property. `Employee` would _not_ be able to overwrite any of the properties given by `Person` e.g. it's not possible to turn `Name` into an array or make it optional. This restriction is important as disabling overwriting enables `Employee` instances to be valid `Person` instances i.e. compatibility with `Person` is kept.

Reviewer 2: Great, thanks Ahmad :)

The immediate problems that arise from this definition:

> - How do we ensure that `Employee` instances can, in fact, be used in place of `Person` entities in practice?

Reviewer 2: Probably best to use "instances" or "entities" consistently in the same sentence, so either:
```suggestion
- How do we ensure that `Employee` entities can, in fact, be used in place of `Person` entities in practice?
```
or
```suggestion
- How do we ensure that `Employee` instances can, in fact, be used in place of `Person` instances in practice?
```

> - Do multiple super-types impose constraints on extending types?

Reviewer 2: Nit: More consistent with how we refer to supertypes in the remainder of the doc:
```suggestion
- Do multiple supertypes impose constraints on extending types?
```

> - Do multiple super-types impose constraints on extending types?

Reviewer 3: I should have made this a different thread though, my mistake

> - How does having `additionalProperties` in existing schemas influence extended types?

Author: Added this in the motivation section: 4863fdbd9aade06fd88a82bb3bca8ebc78e0bc47

> - How do we define extended types within the BP Type System?

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this point, wouldn't this boil down to "how do we define extended types?".

If yes, it seems like something that the document should definitely explain, but not something I'd refer to as an "immediate problem" that arose from the definition - so potentially worth omitting.

> - How do we define extended types within the BP Type System?

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this point, wouldn't this boil down to "how do we define extended types?".

If yes, it seems like something that the document should definitely explain, but not something I'd refer to as an "immediate problem" that arose from the definition - so potentially worth omitting here.
```suggestion
```

> - How do we define extended types within the BP Type System?

Author: Tried to address in 1a90218d7d2d790827c8a9b56dcd73ad17162e83, let me know if it change be more clear

> - How do we define extended types within the BP Type System?

Reviewer 2: Thanks both, I think this addresses my initial confusion 👍

## Subtyping

> Compatibility between extended types is the ability to use the subtype in place of a supertype. [Prior art](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subtyping#Coercions) calls this `coercive subtyping` when it can happen implicitly.

Author: Addressed in dfb102e5e7efedaa4097b41aae5aaf64d47686f3

_Composition_ rather than inheritance allows us to have more guarantees about the relationship between subtypes and supertypes. If a subtype never modifies a supertype's inherited properties, we are sure that the supertype properties are left untouched, which eliminates the need for evaluating compatibility (i.e. no need for [`subsumption`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subtyping#Subsumption), the concept of finding out whether or not a supertype is a supertype of a subtype or not).

For example, an `Employee` instance looks as follows (simplified):

```json
{
  "name": "Charles",
  "age": 35,
  "occupation": "Merchant"
}
```

And the properties would have the following relation to `Employee`:

```txt
      name◄┐ (supertype)    (subtype)
           ├───Person───────Employee
       age◄┘                │
                            │
occupation◄─────────────────┘
```

We can visually see how selecting `Person` in the type hierarchy would provide `name` and `age` properties but exclude the `occupation` property.

> Assuming that we are able to project/select the properties of a type that are defined through the supertype, coercive subtyping is attainable for any subtype. This is a somewhat strong assumption to make, but it unlocks expressing how to extend types.

Author: As this is somewhat explained in the later section, i think it's sufficient to refer to that and defer explaining it before as it is easier to understand with examples df4d9739d00b844c288072bb92e982a61ff5e620

## Multiple supertypes

A type must allow extending multiple super-types if and only if the supertypes can coexist. For supertypes to be able to coexist, their properties should either be disjoint, or overlap in a compatible manner.

**An example of _disjoint_ properties**:

- Supertype `Person` contains required properties `Name` and `Age`
- Supertype `Superhero` contains the property `Superpower`

In this example, there is no overlap between properties, so an `Employee` type could have `Person` and `Superhero` as supertypes

```txt
              (supertypes)
superpower◄────Superhero──┐
                          │
      name◄┐              │
           ├───Person─────Employee (subtype)
       age◄┘              │
                          │
occupation◄───────────────┘

> ```

Author: Should be all lowercase after 9b5142bcc6d8e578b9b15be7a10e3ad028ba1919

**An example of _compatible_, overlapping properties**:

- Supertype `Person` contains the required properties `Name` and `Age`
- Supertype `Superhero` contains the required properties `Superpower` and `Name`

> In this example, `Name` overlaps as a required property in both supertypes.

Reviewer 3: Update: I see this was done below, perhaps we should move some of that explanation up here to avoid confusion

> In this example, `Name` overlaps as a required property in both supertypes.

Author: I think it's fair to add this reference in both places. Addressed in b675818bbc4180e0f00779975afe926a8fe569c6

                          │
occupation◄───────────────┘

```

**An example of _incompatible_, overlapping properties**:

- Supertype `Person` contains the required properties `Name` and `Age`
- Supertype `Superhero` contains the required property `Superpower` and an array of `Name`s

In this example, the array of `Name`s on the `Superhero` type would not be compatible with the required `Name` property of `Person`, which means that the two types cannot be supertypes together.

## Additional properties on types

In the proposed [Versioning RFC](./0408-versioning-types.md) for the type system, having `{ "additionalProperties": false }` for all schemas is an assumption made for determining type compatibility, which means that any supertype will not validate against a subtype that adds properties if it receives all properties of a subtype instance. For example, if we supply the `Employee` instance from above to a `Person`, it will receive properties that are considered `additionalProperties` (the `Occupation` property is not present on `Person`).

The assumption that we can select/project parts of a subtype that make up a supertype is essential for keeping strictness in JSON Schemas.

> And unfortunately, specifying `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` does not behave as expected when composing types together in JSON Schema either, which means we will have to redefine how `{ "additionalProperties": true }` or `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` behaves within our type extension system to make supertypes keep strictness while allowing composition.

Reviewer 4: I think the original made it sound a bit more drastic than it is
```suggestion
We propose slight modifications to how `{ "additionalProperties": true }` and `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` behave and may be used within our type extension system to make supertypes keep strictness while allowing composition.
```

> Concrete examples of how JSON Schema breaks with these validation constraints are shown in the [Reference-level explanation](#additional-properties-on-types-1)

Reviewer 4: This anchor does not exist

Author: Fixed in ffa59d98562a7a2129e16e1a0997a00bd8d2bdae, this was slightly related to the other comment about `unevaluatedProperties` explanation. Thanks for flagging :)

## Defining extended types

Extended types will be defined with conventional JSON Schema syntax, the `allOf` keyword. When creating a new entity type it's possible to extend another entity type by adding an entry to `allOf` value with a versioned URI reference.
Using a versioned URI makes it so that subtypes aren't automatically updated when the supertype is.

> As extended types can extend other extended types, we must also make sure that there are no cycles within the type hierarchy, as it could lead to hard to reason about types and unpredictability.

Author: This was a realization I had after writing this section initially, and you're right. There isn't an actual issue with cycles because of how versioning is defined, and the cycles would always end up with a "leaf type" that isn't circular if we resolve deeply enough. 

I still dislike the idea of having circular extension, though, but yet to find a very good reason to not allow it

## Addressing previous considerations

In the [Type System RFC](./0352-graph-type-system.md#interfacing-with-types-1), we made the following statement:

> The update messages of both the current and new systems make use of partial schemas, merging the schema given in the message contents with the existing Entity Type. This may or may not be the desired semantics of updating, and could lead to undesired behavior. In that case, the semantics can be changed to treat updates as a complete replacement. This is to be decided and can be considered out of scope for this RFC as it touches on inheritance/forking concepts.

> As the new Block Protocol type system doesn't require a delta-based storage approach for its schemas, it's unclear what the advantages of partial schemas for update requests are. We propose that we should treat type updates as complete replacements, so implementation is much more straightforward for embedding applications. Partial schema updates also add some level of indirection, and that may obfuscate error sources and error reasons. Therefore, updates to types must be complete replacements rather than partial schema updates.

Author: > I think there may be EAs that want to be able to control access to certain property types on an entity type (not talking about the entity data here), to avoid leaking the structure of protected data, etc.

I get that controlling access might be beneficial here, but how would a situation where a user has access to modify an entity type but not have read access on the fields look like? If a user does not have access to certain property types, meaning that the block on a user's page doesn't either, how would a block know of the property type missing on an entity type in the first place?

> As the new Block Protocol type system doesn't require a delta-based storage approach for its schemas, it's unclear what the advantages of partial schemas for update requests are. We propose that we should treat type updates as complete replacements, so implementation is much more straightforward for embedding applications. Partial schema updates also add some level of indirection, and that may obfuscate error sources and error reasons. Therefore, updates to types must be complete replacements rather than partial schema updates.

Reviewer 3: I more meant that imagine you have some entity type
```json
{
  "id": "http://..../Employee",
  "properties": {
    "financial stuff": ...
    "hr-y stuff": ...
  }
```

_Perhaps_ we enter a world where accounting users can access the "financial stuff" property on Employee, and have update permissions on "financial stuff", but cannot see the HR stuff, and vice versa for HR users. 

But again I guess this is super hypothetical at this point and:
> But perhaps that's something they can work around in the implementation anyway (e.g. it's a "full replacement" of the part being sent)

Meaning maybe the accounting users are only exposed to a "view" of the Employee where they don't even know there's missing properties, so it's still a "full replace" of the projection.

I think we can ignore my comment for now :)

> As the new Block Protocol type system doesn't require a delta-based storage approach for its schemas, it's unclear what the advantages of partial schemas for update requests are. We propose that we should treat type updates as complete replacements, so implementation is much more straightforward for embedding applications. Partial schema updates also add some level of indirection, and that may obfuscate error sources and error reasons. Therefore, updates to types must be complete replacements rather than partial schema updates.

Reviewer 5: Can this comment be resolved?

> As the new Block Protocol type system doesn't require a delta-based storage approach for its schemas, it's unclear what the advantages of partial schemas for update requests are. We propose that we should treat type updates as complete replacements, so implementation is much more straightforward for embedding applications. Partial schema updates also add some level of indirection, and that may obfuscate error sources and error reasons. Therefore, updates to types must be complete replacements rather than partial schema updates.

Reviewer 5: Can this comment be resolved @benwerner01?

# Reference-level explanation

[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

> ## Defining extended types

Reviewer 3: We don't mention property types, data types, or link types here. If we're going to focus on entity types I think we should explicitly say that. (I think it's fair to say that data types are excluded until the #355 RFC is submitted, and perhaps the same for link types under #354)

Author: Addressed in 3144db1e76da65639489b4be455f4a18319a857c with a disclaimer in the beginning

> ## Defining extended types

Reviewer 3: The examples, and explanation from what I've seen above, does not Entity Types constraining the existence of links. I think we _should_ talk about that at this point because the concept of `"ordered"`, `"type": "array"`, and the link base URI is something we can decide on compatibility with at the moment.

In the BP, we will allow type extension through the `allOf` JSON Schema keyword. This keyword specifies an array of schemas that will have to validate together.

> We'll add the following fields to the existing Entity Type meta schema definition:

Reviewer 4: I'd be up for that.

> We'll add the following fields to the existing Entity Type meta schema definition:

Reviewer 5: What should we do with this comment @benwerner01? The link to the entity type meta schema will be outdated on every updated so I think we shouldn't add a link here and treat the RFCs as the source of truth.
cc @Alfred-Mountfield

> We'll add the following fields to the existing Entity Type meta schema definition:

Reviewer 5: Addressed in https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/pull/1298

```json
{
  "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/type-system/0.2/schema/meta/entity-type",
  "type": "object",
  ...,
  "properties": {
    ...,
    "allOf": {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "$ref": {
          "$comment": "Valid references to existing Entity Typee versions",
          "type": "string",
          "format": "uri"
        },
        "additionalProperties": false
      }
    }
    }

  }

> }

Author: Thanks, added in bfb0537b6a8e8cdba95d9ea1785f639d856ba832. The auto-formatter gets really confused with the dots. Should probably use `jsonc` instead, but the syntax highlighting is not the best :(

    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation/v/1"
    }
  },
  "required": [
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name",
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation"
  ]
}
```

The two types do share the `name` property, but the property definitions are compatible (even using the same version). It's possible to coerce an instance of `Employee` into an instance of `Person` as the properties compose and are compatible.
For example, we may have the following `Employee` instance:

```json
{
  "entityId": 112,
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name": "Charles",
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age": 35,
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation": "Merchant"
  }
}
```

which can be coerced into the following `Person` instance:

```json
{
  "entityId": 112,
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name": "Charles",
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age": 35
  }
}
```

## Subtyping

> We're already implicitly defining `{ "additionalProperties": false }` in the [versioning RFC](./0408-versioning-types.md#determining-type-compatibility) for all schemas, this RFC will piggyback on that, and change the existing, implicit `additionalProperties` usage to `unevaluatedProperties` and slightly change its [vocabulary definition](https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/json-schema-core.html#name-unevaluatedproperties).

Reviewer 2: So something like this @Alfred-Mountfield ?
```suggestion
We're already implicitly defining `{ "additionalProperties": false }` in the [versioning RFC](./0408-versioning-types.md#determining-type-compatibility) for all schemas. This RFC introduces further modifications by changing the existing, implicit `additionalProperties` usage to `unevaluatedProperties` and slightly change its [vocabulary definition](https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/json-schema-core.html#name-unevaluatedproperties).
```

> We're already implicitly defining `{ "additionalProperties": false }` in the [versioning RFC](./0408-versioning-types.md#determining-type-compatibility) for all schemas, this RFC will piggyback on that, and change the existing, implicit `additionalProperties` usage to `unevaluatedProperties` and slightly change its [vocabulary definition](https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/json-schema-core.html#name-unevaluatedproperties).

Reviewer 3: That looks good, although I'm uncertain at the moment as to how we're changing its vocabulary definition but I'll catch up on those threads now.

> The vocabulary change is that the `unevaluatedProperties` keyword will only be applicable at top-level schemas (i.e. subtypes or schemas that don't specify `allOf`), and ignored when present on a schema that resides in the `allOf` array. Instead of the default value being `{ "unevaluatedProperties": {} }`, the default value will be `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }`. Together this makes it so that all supertypes will be able to compose, as their individual, implicit `unevaluatedProperties` values won't have any effect on validation and defer evaluation to the extending type (the subtype).

Reviewer 4: The top-level thing seems consistent with the intended usage, at least how it's described in issues like [this](https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv/issues/1350#issuecomment-744656165)

      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name/v/1"
    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age/v/1"
    }
  },
  "required": [
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name",
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age"
  ]
}
```

would implicitly have `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` set. In the case of the `Employee` type:

```json
{
  "kind": "entityType",
  "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/employee/v/2",
  "type": "object",
  "title": "Employee",
  "allOf": [
    { "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/person/v/2" }
  ],
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name/v/1"
    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation/v/1"
    }
  },
  "required": [
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name",
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation"
  ]
}
```

> the resolved schema residing at `{ "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/person/v/2" }` would _not_ have `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` set. but the top-level entity type would have `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the resolved schema residing at `{ "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/person/v/2" }` would _not_ have `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` set, whereas the top-level entity type itself would have `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }` set.
```

## Detecting cycles

> > 💭 Because of versioning mechanics in the type system added in the [versioning RFC](./0408-versioning-types.md), type versions are not able to make out proper dependency cyles, and would not allow cyclic type hierachy to exist in the literal sense as updates to types would always result in a new version identifier. Instead cycles in the below explanation is more about indirection and obfuscation of types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> 💭 Because of versioning mechanics in the type system added in the [versioning RFC](./0408-versioning-types.md), type versions are not able to make out proper dependency cycles, and would not allow cyclic type hierarchy to exist in the literal sense as updates to types would always result in a new version identifier. Instead cycles in the below explanation is more about indirection and obfuscation of types.
```

Reviewer 3: I think the paragraph is also generally unclear, I'm not entirely sure what you're talking about here.

Author: Adjusted in 25737f66e415610a752a93d467bf8eee045386a8

First entity type version of `Country` without supertype:

```json
{
  "kind": "entityType",
  "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/country/v/1",
  "type": "object",
  "title": "Country",
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name/v/1"
    }
  },
  "required": ["https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name"]
}
```

Entity type `Region` with `Country` as a supertype

```json
{
  "kind": "entityType",
  "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/region/v/1",
  "type": "object",
  "title": "Region",
  "allOf": [
    { "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/country/v/1" }
  ],
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/blurb": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/blurb/v/1"
    }
  },
  "required": ["https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/blurb"]
}
```

The second, cyclic version of the `Country` entity type

```json
{
  "kind": "entityType",

>   // Because of versioning, we can not change this version to /v/1 and create a "proper" cycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Because of versioning, we cannot change this version to /v/1 and create a "proper" cycle.
```

  "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/country/v/2",
  "type": "object",
  "title": "Region",
  "allOf": [
    { "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/region/v/1" }
  ],
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name/v/1"
    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/location": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/location/v/1"
    }
  },
  "required": ["https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name"]
}
```

> This sort of type hierarchy should _not_ be accepted within the type extension system, as the circular dependencies lead to hard to reason about types. While the type hierarchy might be completely valid (as it would be in this case), we should safeguard users from making redundant type structures that look like the above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sort of type hierarchy should _not_ be accepted within the type extension system, as the circular dependencies make types difficult to resolve/reason about. While the type hierarchy might be completely valid (as it would be in this case), we should safeguard users from making redundant type structures that look like the above.
```

In this specific contrived example, creating a new entity type based on `Region` instead of a new version of `Country` might even encode semantic meaning better than re-defining `Country`.

## Multiple supertypes - checking compatibility

As described in the [Guide-level explanation](#multiple-supertypes), when extending multiple entity types, they must be able to coexist in a "compatible manner", which means that the entity types' `properties` and `links` comply with the following:

- For each property (base URI on the top level of `properties`) that exists in multiple entity types:

>   - all entity types refer to the same versioned URI of the property **or** compatible versions of the property (through the [versioning RFC](./0408-versioning-types.md#determining-type-compatibility) definition of 'compatible')

Reviewer 3: I think we should be saying property type here rather than property

Author: addressed in 06a981cb55010fe88c1aad80d31ba45deca85fa6

>   - none of the entity types define the property as an array **or** all define the property as an array with the _exact same_ cardinality constraints.

Reviewer 3: Do they have to have the same cardinality constraints? Can a subtype not make it more constrained?

Reviewer 3: Gotcha, I think I'd missed the fact that you're only talking about the supertypes here, don't we also need to apply most of these rules to the subtype?

I'm not sure what you're saying about the same cardinality is true regardless. 

Say we have entity types A, B, C, and C extends A and B

If C has a constraint that x: [0, 1]
and B has a constraint that x: [0, 3]
and A has a constraint that x: [-1, 2]

I think it still works?

C can be used in place of B, and it can be used in place of A.

It's just that A can't be used in place of B (and vice versa) but we don't need that I don't think.

Author: Have tried to capture in 12c35de1875725e60b37db07075a1f2e7c0ebe61

        "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/email/v/1"
      },
      "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/phone-number": {
        "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/phone-number/v/1"
      },
      // The update is inlined in the existing schema
      "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/birth-date": {
        "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/birth-date/v/1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

given that the original schema was created as follows

```json
{
  "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/person/v/1",
  "type": "object",
  "kind": "entityType",
  "title": "Person",
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name/v/1"
    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/email": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/email/v/1"
    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/phone-number": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/phone-number/v/1"
    }
  }
}
```

> The above change applies to these existing BP operations:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The above change applies to these BP operations (`updateEntityType` having already been implemented, and the others proposed in accepted RFCs):
```

- `updateEntityType`
- `updatePropertyType`
- `updateLinkType`

which must all make use of complete schemas in place of partial ones. These examples originate from the [Type System RFC](./0352-graph-type-system.md#interfacing-with-types-1).

> While not explained in detail in the Type System RFC the `aggregateEntities` operation would need to change behavior slightly. The types returned from aggregating on a specific entity type could now also be implicitly coerced instances of entities (supertypes projected from subtype instances).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While not explained in detail in the Type System RFC the `aggregateEntities` operation would need to change its behavior slightly. The entities returned from aggregating on a specific entity type could now also be implicitly coerced instances of entities (supertypes projected from subtype instances).
```

Reviewer 3: I don't think the rephrasing is correct but I also don't think the original one was. The point is that the types of the entities that have been returned could be coerced, right? So if we're trying to get `Person` objects then you might get back `Employee` entities, where the type can be coerced? Or are we saying entities can be coerced.. I am a little confused at how we're using the terminology.

Author: I'm saying that if you're trying to get `Person` objects, any `Employee` instances would also be part of the result set, as they can be coerced from `Employee` to `Person` because of their type relation

# Drawbacks

[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

- The way this proposal adds type extension means that we must implement some version of property selection/projection for types, which comes with non-trivial implementation details for embedding applications.

> - This drifts further away from JSON Schema by introducing a different meaning to the `unevaluatedProperties` keyword and using it implicitly for our schemas.

Reviewer 4: Is it really a different meaning? Aren't we modifying its default and changing where it may be and is inferred to be used, but not actually changing its behavior based on its presence & value?

Author: We are changing the meaning slightly, as we're making so that validation only occurs at the "top level type" which is not the default behavior when present

- The way compatibility is defined could result in newer versions of supertypes becoming incompatible over time. This is not unique to extending types and can be an "issue" in many parts of the type system as different versions of property types become incompatible.

> 

Reviewer 2: Additional drawback:
```suggestion
- When a new version of a supertype is published, new versions of the subtypes would have to be published to reference the new version of the supertype, cascading the update.

```

Reviewer 3: I don't like that wording. New versions of the subtypes do not **have** to be published. I also don't think this is a drawback, it's just a characteristic of the approach. Another approach does not somehow fix this characteristic, so I don't think this is a drawback. 

Anyway if we do want to explicitly acknowledge it then lets be clear that this is about if a type _wants_ to stay updated with the things it references, then it will need to update each time they do.

Reviewer 2: Agree that this drawback is more a consequence of references to types being versioned, rather than inheritance in itself, but still think it makes sense to mention somewhere - and unless we can think of a better place, I'd be in favour of mentioning it here.

Perhaps you'd prefer the following re-wording @Alfred-Mountfield ?
```suggestion

- When a new version of a supertype `A` is published, if a subtype `B` wants to extend the latest version of `A` a new version of subtype `B` would have to be published with an updated reference. This means updating supertypes can lead to cascading updates if the subtypes want to reference the latest version of the supertype.
```

Reviewer 3: I do prefer that rewording, if you would like to mention it then I think that's fine. I still don't think this is a drawback, or even a negative thing. It just.. is _a_ thing?

As you say it's related to versioning, not the extension/duplication model, and even then I'm not sure cascading updates is really the right term, as these are (mostly) manual processes that won't happen rapidly, especially because we aren't using semver and won't be able to add something like `^1.0.0` or `~1.2.0`

# Rationale and alternatives

[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

The general rationale for this way of handling extended types (which we may also call type inheritance) is that we want to keep supertypes and subtypes compatible with one another. Constraining the way type inheritance works makes it so that we can implicitly have "same as" relations across type inheritance trees. It also allows extending multiple supertypes which can lead to more expressive domain models.

## Problems and alternatives

> `unevaluatedProperties` _almost_ provides the functionality we're after, but unfortunately it just barely misses. If supertypes themselves specify `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }`, they are not able to be part of an `allOf` validator, as they will error out as soon as they see properties that are not part of the supertype itself.

Reviewer 4: I feel like this explanation would be useful higher up where we talk about changes to `unevaluatedProperties`- the explanation for what we're doing with it and why feels a bit scattered at the moment.

We could have this explanation higher up, but keep the 'alternative' proposal down here.

Author: It was originally in the explanation section, but moved it down here. I can move it back up

Author: Moved in 82f9032c84db30d8c6c19b80c2c8a784f9636163

When composing schemas that all contain `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }`, each schema will disallow any other properties which they do not define. Using the following JSON Schema as an example:

```json
{
  "allOf": [
    {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "city": { "type": "string" }
      },
      "required": ["city"],
      "unevaluatedProperties": false
    }
  ],
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "type": { "name": "string" }
  },
  "unevaluatedProperties": false
}
```

and trying to validate against

```json
{
  "city": "Copenhagen",
  "name": "Charles"
}
```

results in validations errors such as `Property 'name' has not been successfully evaluated and the schema does not allow unevaluated properties`.

Changing from `unevaluatedProperties` to `additionalProperties` results in errors `Property 'name' has not been defined and the schema does not allow additional properties`.

Both of these solutions for strict schemas would not be suitable for the type of expressiveness we want for type extension, unfortunately.

> The behavior we're after is that `unevaluatedProperties` should only validate at the top level of a type. This would allow supertypes to still validate `unevaluatedProperties`, but defer checking if they're used within in subtype.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The required behavior is that `unevaluatedProperties` should only validate at the top level of a type, allowing supertypes to validate `unevaluatedProperties` but defer checking if they're used within in subtype.
```

### Alternative through open/closed schemas

A proposed way to deal with conditional `unevaluatedProperties` is to use custom `$defs` definitions for open and closed variations of entity types.

> **Open by default schema**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

**Open by default schema**:
```

```json
{
  "$id": "https://example.com/schema",

  // ... schema contents  ...

  "$defs": {
    "closed": {
      "$anchor": "closed",
      "$ref": "#",
      "unevaluatedProperties": false
    }
  }
}
```

Here, referencing `https://example.com/schema` in a `$ref` will result in an _open schema_ that _does not_ specify `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }`. Referencing `https://example.com/schema#closed` results in retrieving a _closed schema_ that _does_ specify `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }`.

**Closed by default schema**:

```json
{
  "$id": "https://example.com/schema",
  "$ref": "#open",
  "unevaluatedProperties": false,

  "$defs": {
    "schema": {
      "$anchor": "open"
      // ... schema contents ...
    }
  }
}
```

Here, referencing `https://example.com/schema` in a `$ref` will result in a _closed schema_ that _does_ specify `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }`. Referencing `https://example.com/schema#open` results in retrieving an _open schema_ that _does not_ specify `{ "unevaluatedProperties": false }`.

(Thanks Jason Desrosiers for the suggestions!)

> Using the above setup would mean that we need to specify `#open` at the end of type URIs when URIs appear in `allOf`. We would also need to serve type schemas with one of the above structures, such that they conform with JSON Schema. Although this does add some ceremony around extending types, we would end up with a type extension system that would conform to JSON Schema without implicitness or redefining keywords.

Reviewer 3: Do we have a justification for why we aren't going with this approach? (From the wording of the doc it seems like we're not anyway)

# Prior art

[prior-art]: #prior-art

- [JSON Schema composition](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/combining.html) and [`unevaluatedProperties`](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/object.html#unevaluated-properties)
- [Programming languages subtyping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subtyping)

# Unresolved questions

[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- We haven't specified how projecting/selecting properties of a supertype from a subtype instance is possible. It is an open question how we actually pick out the exact properties of a subtype to provide a valid supertype instance in embedding applications.

> - Duplicating types of "forking" is not solved by this RFC.

Reviewer 2: @Alfred-Mountfield what is the current process for follow-up RFCs mentioned here? Should we leave it like this, or create a draft PR and link it?

Reviewer 3: Either or. I think if we **know** it needs a follow-up in the very near future then we should make the draft because it's nice to reference something. But if we aren't 100% going to address it soon then we probably shouldn't leave drafts hanging around.

> - The current argument for not allowing cyclic type hierarchies mostly build on a feeling that type hierarchies shouldn't be too indirect/obfuscated, but there could be stronger arguments for allowing/not allowing it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The current argument for not allowing cyclic type hierarchies mostly build on a feeling that type hierarchies shouldn't be too indirect/obfuscated, but there could be stronger arguments for allowing/disallowing it.
```

- Feature Name: extending-types
- Start Date: 2022-07-11
- RFC PR: [blockprotocol/blockprotocol#428](https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/pull/428)
- Block Protocol Discussion: [blockprotocol/blockprotocol#0000](https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/discussions/0000)

# Summary

[summary]: #summary

As a follow-up to the [Graph type system RFC](./0352-graph-type-system.md), this RFC will describe the behavior of which types in the type system can be extended and duplicated.

# Motivation

[motivation]: #motivation

Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support? What is the expected outcome?

# Guide-level explanation

[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

> Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the protocol and you were teaching it to another Block Protocol implementor. That generally means:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the protocol and you were teaching it to another Block Protocol implementer. That generally means:
```

So says the ngram.
- [StackExchange answer](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/195699/implementor-vs-implementer)
- [ngram result](https://books.google.com/ngrams/graph?content=implementer%2Cimplementor&year_start=1929&year_end=2019&corpus=26&smoothing=0&case_insensitive=true&direct_url=t4%3B%2Cimplementer%3B%2Cc0%3B%2Cs0%3B%3Bimplementer%3B%2Cc0%3B%3BImplementer%3B%2Cc0%3B%3BIMPLEMENTER%3B%2Cc0%3B.t4%3B%2Cimplementor%3B%2Cc0%3B%2Cs0%3B%3Bimplementor%3B%2Cc0%3B%3BImplementor%3B%2Cc0%3B%3BIMPLEMENTOR%3B%2Cc0)

Reviewer 3: That's my mistake I think, unless I copied it from somewhere else 😁

> - Feature Name: extending-and-duplicating-types

Author: We've discussed calling switching to calling this Inherts/Forking on the top level. Commenting for visibility and later todo.

Author: 1848a05f915bf5d40c838f9799848798ed144882 and 78a8f596527b051331c81fe72e69e8fdfcdf26f1

A [versioned URI](https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/blob/main/rfcs/text/0408-versioning-types.md#type-uris) is used so that subtypes aren't automatically updated (and potentially invalidated) when the supertype is updated.

As extended types can extend other extended types we must also make sure that there are no cycles within the type hierarchy, as it makes types difficult to resolve/reason about and could lead to unpredictable behavior.

## Defining entity type duplication

When looking for public types, if extending an entity type is insufficient, an alternative is to duplicate the type so that individual properties can be removed or overridden. Duplicated types become new complete, standalone types.

Type duplication, unlike extended types, does not imply that instances of the original type can be substituted by instances of the duplicated type because the types may be incompatible. A mapping may be used to persist some of of compatibility (which is yet to be defined within the type system).

> Because of the behavior of type duplication, the Block Protocol wouldn't have to change much to support duplicating entity types, as it can be considered literal copying. Although having more explicit metadata about type duplication does, however, enable provenance for duplicated types. As such, any duplicated type should specify what origin entity type they are duplicates of through a new `forkedFrom` keyword. This keyword is used in the duplicated entity type schema as a versioned URI reference to the type which was duplicated.

Reviewer 3: I think we should actually remove this. I'm not sure of the value of storing the metadata inline inside the schema, 
especially in the long run. 

If the metadata actually did prove useful and people relied on it for certain logic flows then I think we'd need to worry about how easy it is to spoof, I could just throw "forkedFrom" with any URI I like even if the two things are 100% unrelated. To be clear, I don't think there's actually much risk from people doing so, but that's because I think this metadata holds very little value.

If some big type aggregator / source / manager wants to maintain separate metadata then I think that's perfectly sensible and viable, but I don't think it makes sense to include it within the schema. And it adds another point for a (weak) dependency on another type.

Author: Removed in d2903f556d80e41fb21885e6c882ce114ac5dca3

Using the above setup would mean that we need to specify `#open` at the end of type URIs when URIs appear in `allOf`. We would also need to serve type schemas with one of the above structures, such that they conform with JSON Schema. Although this does add some ceremony around extending types, we would end up with a type extension system that would conform to JSON Schema without implicitness or redefining keywords.

# Prior art

[prior-art]: #prior-art

- [JSON Schema composition](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/combining.html) and [`unevaluatedProperties`](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/object.html#unevaluated-properties)
- [Programming languages subtyping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subtyping)
- [Liskov substitution principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle)

# Unresolved questions

[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- We haven't specified how projecting/selecting properties of a supertype from a subtype instance is possible. It is an open question how we actually pick out the exact properties of a subtype to provide a valid supertype instance in embedding applications.

> - Duplicating types of "forking" is not solved by this RFC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ~~Duplicating types of "forking" is not solved by this RFC.~~
```

Author: 6d516d4a533eb5684b7363c5cedd93eb579df73c

- The current argument for not allowing cyclic type hierarchies mostly build on a feeling that type hierarchies shouldn't be too indirect/obfuscated, but there could be stronger arguments for allowing/disallowing it.
- The decision to have type substitution between subtype and supertype does mean the extended types are restrictive in that they do not allow for removing/changing existing properties. Without a way to transform data between types, allowing overrides is not possible while keeping compatibility.

# Future possibilities

[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

- The conservative way type extension is introduced in this PR allows for future work in the "data mapping" space to apply to type inheritance as well. Being able to map between entity types could enable a shared mapping for otherwise incompatible (as supertypes) entity types.

> - Implementations of the upcoming "Structure-based Queries" RFC could benefit from some of the groud-work set out by this RFC, as the selection/projection of supertypes could be the basis of structure-based queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Implementations of the upcoming "Structure-based Queries" RFC could benefit from some of the ground-work set out by this RFC, as the selection/projection of supertypes could be the basis of structure-based queries.
```

This RFC introduces a way for types to be extended in a way where the reusability and sharing aspects of the Block Protocol are maintained, and a way for types to be duplicated in case extending types is insufficient.

# Guide-level explanation

[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

> ⭐ The use of 'types' throughout this RFC, it can be assume to refer to _entity types_ specifically unless stated otherwise.

Type extension can be seen as the concept of adding properties to an existing entity type `Type` by creating a new type `SubType` that has a specific relation to `Type`.
Using `SubType` in place of `Type` must be possible when extending a type, which means that existing properties and links may _not_ be modified. This property of extended types is an explicit design decision, as types are still considered "reused" when they are extended. Extending types further empowers the idea of gradual convergence, as users can reuse publicly-available types they are not satisfied with.

> For example, an `Employee` entity type could be an extended version of `Person`. This `Employee` type could contain all of the properties of `Person` as well as having _additional_ domain-specific properties, making it more concrete while keeping compatibility with `Person`.

Author: Valid concerns here, and I think the requested changes accurately capture what is meant. Thanks!

Concrete examples of how JSON Schema breaks with these validation constraints are shown in the [Reference-level explanation](#problems-with-unevaluatedproperties)

## Defining extended entity types

Extended types will be defined with conventional JSON Schema syntax, the `allOf` keyword. An entity type can extend another entity type by adding an entry to `allOf` value with a versioned URI reference.
Using a [versioned URI](https://github.com/blockprotocol/blockprotocol/blob/main/rfcs/text/0408-versioning-types.md#type-uris) makes it so that subtypes aren't automatically updated when the supertype is.

As extended types can extend other extended types, we must also make sure that there are no cycles within the type hierarchy, as it makes types difficult to resolve/reason about, and could lead to unpredictable behavior.

## Defining entity type duplication

When looking for public types, if extending an entity type is not sufficient for a given situation, an alternative is to duplicate the type, such that individual properties can be overridden. Duplicated types become new complete, standalone types.

> Type duplication, unlike extended types, will not allow for direct substitution, as the types may be incompatible, thus requiring some sort of mapping (which is yet to be defined within the type system).

Author: As the details of mapping are still fuzzy, I'm okay with making these changes. The intention I had about the "direct substitution" is that no mapping would be required because of assumptions made on type shape. As soon as we duplicate a type, we can't make that assumption, and we require mapping even if the substitution is direct and one-to-one.

> Because of the behavior of type duplication, the Block Protocol wouldn't have to change much to support duplicating entity types, as it can be considered literal copying. Although having more explicit metadata about type duplication does, however, enable provenance for duplicated types. As such, any duplicated type should specify what origin entity type they are duplicates of through a new `forkedFrom` keyword. This keyword is added to the new entity type schema as duplication takes place and will be a URI reference to the exact type version being duplicated.

Author: Looking at it now after some time, it is a little confusing, sorry! I'll commit your suggestion as I think it does capture what I intended to write

If a user wants to duplicate `Employee` but update a property present on `Person`, the entity type they're modifying acts like an entity type with all properties expanded. It is no longer possible for the user to subtype `Person` and instead they are creating a completely new type with no given `allOf` entries.

The original, conceptually expanded `Employee` entity type:

```json
{
  "kind": "entityType",
  "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/entity-type/employee/v/1",
  "type": "object",
  "title": "Employee",
  "properties": {
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name/v/1"
    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age/v/1"
    },
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation": {
      "$ref": "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation/v/1"
    }
  },
  "required": [
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/name",
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/age"
    "https://blockprotocol.org/@alice/property-type/occupation"
  ]
}
```

> This expanded entity is equivalent to the original `Employee` entity type, but without any extended type declaration. If Bob wanted to change the `age` property instead of `occupation`, that would be possible by duplicating this intermediate representation of `Employee` as follows:

Author: I guess 1. and 2. can be considered two different scenarios. I can add heading to split the examples.
Assuming that `Bob` hasn't duplicated `Employee` yet, and they want what is written in 2. then `Bob` would need to expand the types of `Employee` as described in steps 3.-4. (This should not be a manual process), and then Bob can remove the age `property` and add the `occupation` properties on the "expanded" `Employee` type

```json
{
  "kind": "entityType",

>   "$id": "https://blockprotocol.org/@bob/entity-type/employee/v/2",

Author: Yes, thanks. Added in 76d8bc5742d30e00303c3720128ca1660c622574
